hello this is presto Walker and I'm
going to teach you how to solve the
Rubik's Cube in the first video I'm
going to explain how you solve the cube
by cheating this is not so you actually
cheat but it's to explain the anatomy of
the cube in the videos to follow I'm
going to explain the move notation and
then I'm going to explain the layer
method in which you solve the cube layer
by layer by solving the first layer then
the middle layer and then the final
layer the rubik's cube is a 3d puzzle
and it's one of the best-selling toys of
all time there are six faces with
different colors you can move the cube
around and move the colors around and
what makes the rubik's cube such an
interesting problem is that even after a
few moves the colors get mixed up quite
thoroughly what makes it frustrating is
that when you try and put the cube back
together if you don't know what you're
doing it seems like the cube only gets
mixed up more so in dire frustration you
might be tempted to cheat and that's
what we're going to do right now I'm
going to take the cube apart and then
reassemble the pieces in their correct
positions now a few words of caution I
don't recommend doing this as you can
see it's actually frustrating sometimes
it's not that easy to do the other
problem is that it's going to take us
nearly ten minutes to take it apart and
then put it back together if instead you
follow the instructions in the videos
that follow you'll be able to solve the
cube in just a couple minutes and it'll
be far more impressive than if you cheat
it alright once I have one piece that's
webbed out I'm going to slowly remove
the rest of the pieces and take the
rubik's cube apart
I'm going to do this solely because it's
very easy to lose a piece in this
process or they'll fly everywhere but
the reason I'm doing this it's not just
a treat and get to a salt position
because I know how to solve the sea but
the point is I want to show you the
anatomy or the skeleton of the rubik's
cube there are six faces which have
different colors and these faces what's
important is that they do not move these
pieces are completely fixed and the
point of solving the rubik's cube is you
want to move the remaining pieces to
match them so the white face will always
be opposite the yellow face the orange
face will be opposite the red and the
blue face and green faces will be
opposite each other so you might be able
to rotate the pieces but they'll never
be able to move into other positions now
before I put the cube back together I'm
going to sort the pieces you can think
about this like solving a jigsaw puzzle
where you separate the pieces into
corner pieces edge pieces and middle
pieces for the Rubik's Cube there is a
similar grouping that we're going to use
some of the pieces will have white on
them which means they're going to have
to match the white Center face and we
know those pieces can all be put in a
group other pieces will be yellow and
that means they'll have to go on the
side that's opposite the white face
where there's a yellow Center some of
the pieces will neither have white nor
yellow and those pieces will go in the
center there's one further subdivision
of the pieces which is some of the
pieces will be corner pieces which will
have three color
on them and some of them will be edge
pieces which just have two colors so
I've sorted the pieces into five piles
that have four pieces each and now we're
going to solve we're going to explain
how the layer method works to solve the
puzzle the first step is we're going to
look at the white Center the white face
and we're going to make a cross so we're
going to look at the edge pieces and we
want to match the edge pieces which have
two colors to the to the sides to the
other Center pieces which don't move so
here we have an orange and white edge
piece and it has to go in that position
to match the white orange and white
sides similarly the next side has green
and white and we're going to keep going
around the rest of the layer so we put
the red and white edge piece in position
and finally we put the blue and white
edge piece in position and at this time
we've solved the white cross the next
step in the layer method will be to
solve for the corner pieces of the white
layer so there are four corner pieces
and we're going to find the group of
corner pieces which have the white
corners so here we have an orange and
white and green side so there's one
corner which has these colors and we put
it in the correct orientation
then we have a corner which is greeting
red and white we find that corner and
put it in the correct orientation as
well
as you can see while I'm putting the
cube back together there are some
difficulties so that's another problem
with this method of cheating all right
we put in the red blue and white and now
it's getting kind of hard to hold this
together but we only have one corner to
go and that's the blue orange and white
corner so now we put that it's falling
apart we'll put it back together alright
so now we've solved one layer of the
cube so all of these pieces are in the
correct position and they match not only
is the white all of the pieces on the
white side white but they also match the
center pieces for the colors of the
other side and that's very important the
next step in the layer method will be to
solve for the middle layer so there are
four pieces which have two colors each
and we're going to want to match the
sides of the two colors so you get the
group of pieces there four of them here
we want to match a green and orange edge
piece in the middle layer so we'll find
that piece and then put it in the
correct orientation we'll continue going
around the middle layer we want to match
an orange and blue piece in the correct
orientation
we'll continue matching a blue and red
piece and finally we have a red and
green piece so once we put that piece
into place we have solved the second
layer and now we have two layers
completely solved we have the bottom
layer and the middle layer we only have
one more layer to solve which is the
yellow side and we're going to solve
that by creating a cross so we'll go
ahead and match the edge pieces which
have yellow on one side and match it to
the color of the other side we're gonna
go around the rest of this layer and put
in the remaining edge pieces when we
actually solve the videos for the top
layer we're going to do it slightly
differently we're going to create this
yellow cross without regard to matching
the other sides but then we're going to
show you how you can move these pieces
around so ultimately you will create a
yellow cross where all of the edge
pieces match the center pieces of the
sides so we just have one more piece
which is the blue and yellow piece it
becomes harder to start putting these
pieces in as all the other pieces are in
the cube but I'm gonna go ahead and try
and snap this into place and alright
I've actually made a mistake here I've
put it upside down and if you if you do
make a mistake like that while putting
the cube back together it's very
important that you put it in the correct
position and the reason is that if you
flip one of the pieces it actually puts
the cube in an unsolvable position so go
ahead and fix that and
that's one problem if if you take apart
the cube you could put it back together
in the wrong way all right finally we
have four corners and we're going to
match the correct colors and put all of
these four corners into place so as it's
becoming physically harder to snap the
pieces in it will also be a little bit
harder mechanically to solve the cube as
we get more and more pieces because
there's we want to move these pieces
around without messing up the rest of
the cube but once you get it finally
done you put the last piece in and you
will have a solved cube so that's how
you cheat at solving the rubik's cube
and in the remaining videos I'll show
you how you can solve the cube the right
way by learning specific move
combinations to move the edge and corner
pieces around I hope you liked this
video please click through to watch the
next video which explains the move
notation please subscribe to my channel
you can support me on patreon to get
exclusive rewards catch me on my blog
mind your decisions on Twitter at
pressure Locker and you can get my books
listed on my website